docs: add v8 deprecations (#30598)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/deprecations.md

| `@angular/upgrade` | [`@angular/upgrade`](#upgrade) | <!--v8--> v9 |
| `@angular/upgrade` | [`getAngularLib`](#upgrade-static) | <!--v8--> v9 |
| `@angular/upgrade` | [`setAngularLib`](#upgrade-static) | <!--v8--> v9 |

> | template syntax | [`/deep/`, `>>>`, and `::ng-deep`](#deep-component-style-selector) | <!--v7--> unspecified |

Reviewer: Thanks for your input on this @trotyl 😄

Author: Totally agree! @trotyl is great! 🙌🏼

Reviewer 2: Thank you both~

Reviewer 2: Also, technically `/deep/` and `>>>` can be removed, which are already forbidden in preprocessor, the only thing matters is `::ng-deep`.

The need for this polyfill was removed in Angular version 8.0 ([see #14473](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/pull/14473)), rendering the presence of the poylfill in most Angular applications unnecessary. Because the polyfill can be depended on by 3rd-party libraries, instead of removing it from all Angular projects, we are deprecating the requirement for this polyfill as of version 8.0. This should give library authors and application developers sufficient time to evaluate if they need the polyfill, and perform any refactoring necessary to remove the dependency on it.

In a typical Angular project, the polyfill is not used in production builds, so deprecating it (rather than removing it)  doesn't have impact on the production applications. The goal behind this removal is overall simplification of the build setup and decrease in the number of external dependencies.

We expect to remove the polyfill from most if not all CLI projects via an `ng upgrade` migration from version 8 to 9.

> {@a sstatic-query-resolution}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{@a static-query-resolution}
```

Author: aw man! Thanks hehe

### `@ViewChild()` / `@ContentChild()` static resolution as the default

The API docs have always recommended searching for `ViewChild()` query results in
the `ngAfterViewInit()` hook at the earliest and searching for
`ContentChild()` query results in the `ngAfterContentInit()` hook at the earliest.

However, in practice, `@ViewChild()` and `@ContentChild()` queries are sometimes

> resolved earlier in the lifecycle (that is, before change detection runs) if the results are not influenced by bindings (for example, some results are embedded in an *ngIf or *ngFor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resolved earlier in the lifecycle (that is, before change detection runs) if the results are not influenced by bindings (for example, some results are embedded in an `*ngIf` or `*ngFor`).
```

Author: Got it. :)

This default resolution behavior is deprecated. In a future version of Angular, all queries will be resolved only before their guaranteed hooks by default.

If you do need to access the `ViewChild()` or `ContentChild()` value
before change detection runs (for example, in `ngOnInit()`), you can
use a static flag as in the following example:

```
@ViewChild('foo', {static: true}) foo !: ElementRef;
```

{@a contentchild-input-together}
### `@ContentChild()` / `@Input()` used together

The following pattern is deprecated:

```ts
@Input() @ContentChild(TemplateRef) tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
```

Rather than using this pattern, separate the two decorators into their own
properties and add fallback logic as in the following example:

```ts
@Input() tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
@ContentChild(TemplateRef) inlineTemplate !: TemplateRef<any>;
```
{@a cant-assign-template-vars}
### Cannot assign to template variables

In the following example, the two-way binding means that `optionName`
should be written when the `valueChange` event fires.

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [(value)]="optionName"></cmp>
```

> However, in practice, Angular simply ignores two-way bindings to template variables. Starting in v8, attempting to write to template variables is deprecated. In a future version, we will throw to indicate that the write is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in practice, Angular simply ignores two-way bindings to template variables. Starting in version 8, attempting to write to template variables is deprecated. In a future version, we will throw to indicate that the write is not supported.
```

Author: Fixed!

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [value]="optionName"></cmp>
```

{@a binding-to-innertext}
### Binding to `innerText` in `platform-server`

[Domino](https://github.com/fgnass/domino), which is used in server-side rendering, doesn't support `innerText`, so in platform-server's "domino adapter", there was special code to fall back to `textContent` if you tried to bind to `innerText`.

These two properties have subtle differences, so switching to `textContent` under the hood can be surprising to users. For this reason, we are deprecating this behavior. Going forward, users should explicitly bind to `textContent` when using Domino.

{@a wtf-apis}
### `wtfStartTimeRange` and all `wtf*` APIs

All of the `wtf*` APIs are deprecated and will be removed in a future version.

{@a platform-webworker}
### `platform-webworker`

> Though web worker is useful to offload things requiring lots of processing, pushing whole apps to run in the web worker isn't a winning strategy due to many unresolved issues (for example, Google search crawler doesn't support web workers).

Reviewer: > Google search crawler doesn't support web workers

Is this still true with Googlebot being based on Evergreen Chrome now?

Author: @kara do you know?^^

Reviewer: I pinged the guy who would know for sure as well (https://twitter.com/Splaktar/status/1131327851674918912).

Reviewer 3: cc @IgorMinar the original info came from him so he would know more

> Though web worker is useful to offload things requiring lots of processing, pushing whole apps to run in the web worker isn't a winning strategy due to many unresolved issues (for example, Google search crawler doesn't support web workers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@angular/platform-*` packages enable Angular to be run in different contexts. Some examples are running Angular on the server (`@angular/platform-server`), in the browser (`@angular/platform-browser`), or in a [web worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) (`@angular/platform-webworker`).

Though web worker is useful to offload things requiring lots of processing, pushing whole apps to run in the web worker isn't a winning strategy due to many unresolved issues.
```

Author: This is great. Thank you!

Angular CLI doesn't allow use of these APIs because the build system and bundling doesn't support them. This whole package is deprecated in Angular version 8 and will be removed in the future.

> Instead, use web workers primarily for offloading CPU intensive, but functionally not critical, work needed for initial rendering (for example, in memory search, image processing, and so on).

Reviewer: Should we make it more explicit that web workers are still supported in Angular and that only this "platform" is deprecated? I feel like some readers won't understand what our `platform-*` packages are for.

Reviewer: Suggested solution [here](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/30598/files#r286719189).

Author: fixed via next comment. Thank you!

The need for this polyfill was removed in Angular version 8.0 ([see #14473](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/pull/14473)), rendering the presence of the poylfill in most Angular applications unnecessary. Because the polyfill can be depended on by 3rd-party libraries, instead of removing it from all Angular projects, we are deprecating the requirement for this polyfill as of version 8.0. This should give library authors and application developers sufficient time to evaluate if they need the polyfill, and perform any refactoring necessary to remove the dependency on it.

> In a typical Angular project, the polyfill is not used in production builds, so deprecating it (rather than removing it)  doesn't have impact on the production applications. The goal behind this removal is overall simplification of the build setup and decrease in the number of external dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a typical Angular project, the polyfill is not used in production builds, so deprecating it (rather than removing it) avoids impacting production applications. The goal behind this removal is overall simplification of the build setup and decrease in the number of external dependencies.
```

Reviewer: I know we mention that this is being deprecated above, but the way this sentence reads, it seems like you should be recommending removal here?

If that's the case, then maybe this is better?

>In a typical Angular project, the polyfill is not used in production builds, so removing it should not impact production applications.

Maybe both of my suggestions are off, either way, I think that this needs refinement.

Author: Agreed on your refinement point and I like your sentence. Added.

We expect to remove the polyfill from most if not all CLI projects via an `ng upgrade` migration from version 8 to 9.

{@a early-resolution}
### `@ViewChild()` / `@ContentChild()` early resolution

> The docs have always recommended searching for `ViewChild()` query results in the `ngAfterViewInit()` hook at the earliest and searching for `ContentChild()` query results in the `ngAfterContentInit()` hook at the earliest.

Reviewer 2: > The docs have always recommended

Not true, the example of [Dynamic Components](https://angular.io/guide/dynamic-component-loader#resolving-components) does access `ViewChild` at `ngOnInit` hook.

<sub>Unless official examples are considered not recommended</sub>

Reviewer 2: Also, should the example be refactored first before saying this is deprecated?

Author: Very good points. Yes, we should definitely refactor the examples. In this case they will have to be a fast follower. I'll change the wording in the meantime and get some direction on this.

Reviewer 3: To be clear, I'm talking about the official API docs.

Author: Ah, thank you @kara. I'll specify this.

However, in practice, `@ViewChild()` and `@ContentChild()` queries are sometimes resolved earlier in the lifecycle (that is, before change detection runs) if the results are not influenced by binding resolution.

> This "auto-sorting" of resolution timing is deprecated. Starting in Angular v9, all queries will be resolved only before their guaranteed hooks by default.

Author: fixed!

> Instead, use a static flag on queries that need to be resolved earlier.

Author: added.

{@a contentchild-input-together}
### `@ContentChild()` / `@Input()` used together

The following pattern is deprecated:

```ts

> @Input() @ContentChild(TemplateRef) tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should recommend using `<any>` anymore, with Ivy going to fix the template type-checking. Same for example below.

Reviewer 3: I think it's ok here because it has nothing to do with the example

```

> Rather than using this pattern, separate the `@Input()` from the query into two properties and add fallback logic as in the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rather than using this pattern, separate the two decorators into their own properties and add fallback logic as in the following example:

```

Author: Added.

```ts
@Input() tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
@ContentChild(TemplateRef) inlineTemplate !: TemplateRef<any>;
```
{@a cant-assign-template-vars}
### Cannot assign to template variables

> Previously, Angular simply ignored assignments to template variables. For example, in the following example, the two-way binding means that `optionName` is being written when the `valueChange` event fires.

Reviewer 3: "Previously" is a bit misleading here since this is the current behavior (that we're deprecating).

```suggestion
In the following example, the two-way binding means that `optionName` should be written when the `valueChange` event fires.

<example>

However, in practice, Angular simply ignores two-way bindings to template variables. Starting in v8, attempting to write to template variables is deprecated. In v9, we will throw to indicate that the write is not supported.

Rather...
```

Author: Fixed.

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: `ts` -> `html`? Another case below.

Author: Oh yes! Good catch, thank you @trotyl :)

fixed.

<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [(value)]="optionName"></cmp>
```

Rather than assigning to template variables, switch to one-way binding, since two-way doesn't do anything.

```ts
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [value]="optionName"></cmp>
```

{@a binding-to-innertext}
### Binding to `innerText` in `platform-server`

> In View Engine, `innerText` was in the [DOM element schema](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/compiler/src/schema/dom_element_schema_registry.ts#L78), so binding to it would never throw a `unknown property` error.

Reviewer 3: Most people don't know what View Engine is, so we probably shouldn't mention it directly here. Also seems like we should focus on user-facing effects rather than implementation details:

```suggestion
[Domino](https://github.com/fgnass/domino), which is used in server-side rendering, doesn't support `innerText`, so in platform-server's "domino adapter", there was special code to fall back to `textContent` if you tried to bind to `innerText`. 

These two properties have subtle differences, so switching to `textContent` under the hood can be surprising to users. For this reason, we are deprecating this behavior.  Going forward, users should explicitly bind to `textContent` when using Domino.
```

Author: Added.

> In View Engine, `innerText` was in the [DOM element schema](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/compiler/src/schema/dom_element_schema_registry.ts#L78), so binding to it would never throw a `unknown property` error.

Reviewer 2: Also the link is for master branch, which could change over time and line 78 may points to a different position, better to use a permalink like `https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/f74e0fd8251802107094886d76a0971d478d6be8/packages/compiler/src/schema/dom_element_schema_registry.ts#L78`

(Doesn't necessary if it's going to be removed)

Author: Oh good point! Changed. :)

[Domino](https://github.com/fgnass/domino), which provides server-side rendering, doesn't support `innerText`, so in platform-server's "domino adapter", there was special code to fall back to `textContent` if you tried to bind to `innerText`. These two properties have subtle differences that require different treatment with Angular version 8.

To avoid errors, use `textContent` instead.

{@a wtf-apis}
### `wtfStartTimeRange` and all `wtf*` APIs

> All of the `wtf*` APIs are being deprecated and will be removed in version 9.

Reviewer 3: It seems like we need more info here. @IgorMinar Should we mention that these haven't been maintained in a while and had some issues?

```suggestion
All of the `wtf*` APIs are being deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
```

Author: Made copy edit. Following for Igor's direction.

> All of the `wtf*` APIs are being deprecated and will be removed in version 9.

Reviewer 2: `are being deprecated` sounds like `are going to be deprecated`, wouldn't `are deprecated` be more clear?

Author: Much appreciated, @trotyl. Fixed :)

We expect to remove the polyfill from most if not all CLI projects via an `ng upgrade` migration from version 8 to 9.

> {@a early-resolution}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{@a static-query-resolution}
```

Author: Done.

> ### `@ViewChild()` / `@ContentChild()` early resolution

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `@ViewChild()` / `@ContentChild()` static resolution as the default
```

Reviewer 4: could we call it "static" so that it's clear that the change is going from `{static: true}` by default in most cases to `{static: false}` as the default.

Author: Done.

The API docs have always recommended searching for `ViewChild()` query results in
the `ngAfterViewInit()` hook at the earliest and searching for
`ContentChild()` query results in the `ngAfterContentInit()` hook at the earliest.

However, in practice, `@ViewChild()` and `@ContentChild()` queries are sometimes
resolved earlier in the lifecycle (that is, before change detection runs) if the results are not influenced by bindings (for example, some results are embedded in an *ngIf or *ngFor).

> This early resolution behavior is deprecated. In a future version of Angular, all queries will be resolved only before their guaranteed hooks by default.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This default early resolution behavior is deprecated. In a future version of Angular, all queries will be resolved only before their guaranteed hooks by default.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Instead, use a static flag on queries that need to be resolved earlier as in the following example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you do need to access the `ViewChild` or `ContentChild` value in a life-cycle hook before change detection runs (e.g. in `ngOnInit`), you can use a static flag to preserve this behavior as in the following example:
```

Author: Done.

Reviewer 3: Nit: the phrasing makes it sounds like the lifecycle hook runs before change detection (whereas it's after). Could we say:

> If you do need to access the `ViewChild` or `ContentChild` value before change detection runs (e.g. in `ngOnInit`), you can use a static flag

Author: Got it, @kara.

```

Rather than using this pattern, separate the two decorators into their own
properties and add fallback logic as in the following example:

```ts
@Input() tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
@ContentChild(TemplateRef) inlineTemplate !: TemplateRef<any>;
```
{@a cant-assign-template-vars}
### Cannot assign to template variables

In the following example, the two-way binding means that `optionName`
should be written when the `valueChange` event fires.

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [(value)]="optionName"></cmp>
```

However, in practice, Angular simply ignores two-way bindings to template variables. Starting in v8, attempting to write to template variables is deprecated. In a future version, we will throw to indicate that the write is not supported.

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [value]="optionName"></cmp>
```

{@a binding-to-innertext}
### Binding to `innerText` in `platform-server`

[Domino](https://github.com/fgnass/domino), which is used in server-side rendering, doesn't support `innerText`, so in platform-server's "domino adapter", there was special code to fall back to `textContent` if you tried to bind to `innerText`.

> To avoid errors, use `textContent` instead.

Reviewer 3: I think we removed the wrong sentence? We should add this back and remove line 350

```
These two properties have subtle differences, so switching to `textContent` under the hood can be surprising to users. For this reason, we are deprecating this behavior.  Going forward, users should explicitly bind to `textContent` when using Domino.
```

Author: Oh thanks! Fixed.

We expect to remove the polyfill from most if not all CLI projects via an `ng upgrade` migration from version 8 to 9.

{@a early-resolution}
### `@ViewChild()` / `@ContentChild()` early resolution

The API docs have always recommended searching for `ViewChild()` query results in
the `ngAfterViewInit()` hook at the earliest and searching for
`ContentChild()` query results in the `ngAfterContentInit()` hook at the earliest.

However, in practice, `@ViewChild()` and `@ContentChild()` queries are sometimes

> resolved earlier in the lifecycle (that is, before change detection runs) if the results are not influenced by binding resolution.

Author: fixed.

> This early resolution behavior is deprecated. Starting in Angular v9, all queries will be resolved only before their guaranteed hooks by default.

Author: fixed.

Instead, use a static flag on queries that need to be resolved earlier as in the following example:

```

> @ViewChild('foo', {static; true}) foo !: ElementRef;

Author: fixed.

```

{@a contentchild-input-together}
### `@ContentChild()` / `@Input()` used together

The following pattern is deprecated:

```ts
@Input() @ContentChild(TemplateRef) tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
```

Rather than using this pattern, separate the two decorators into their own
properties and add fallback logic as in the following example:

```ts
@Input() tpl !: TemplateRef<any>;
@ContentChild(TemplateRef) inlineTemplate !: TemplateRef<any>;
```
{@a cant-assign-template-vars}
### Cannot assign to template variables

In the following example, the two-way binding means that `optionName`
should be written when the `valueChange` event fires.

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [(value)]="optionName"></cmp>
```

> Rather than assigning to template variables, switch to one-way binding, since two-way doesn't do anything.

Author: Got it. :)

```html
<option *ngFor="let optionName of options" [value]="optionName"></cmp>
```

{@a binding-to-innertext}
### Binding to `innerText` in `platform-server`

[Domino](https://github.com/fgnass/domino), which is used in server-side rendering, doesn't support `innerText`, so in platform-server's "domino adapter", there was special code to fall back to `textContent` if you tried to bind to `innerText`.

These two properties have subtle differences, so switching to `textContent` under the hood can be surprising to users. For this reason, we are deprecating this behavior. Going forward, users should explicitly bind to `textContent` when using Domino.

> To avoid errors, use `textContent` instead.

Author: removed.
